>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You'll notice
here we have this two premise.
And so this was a big deal when
people were switching to angular two.
Now, not so much I don't think.
But coming from one dot ex,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In working
with premises going to observables,
that can be a little overwhelming.
So I know initially there was
quite a bit of resistance of
why would I even use
an observable over a promise?
They do almost the same
thing in this context.
So if that's the case, no problem.
You just converse your
observable to a promise.
I think and a reason why you would
use this is if you were doing
a hybrid app of angular JS and
Angular, and
for consistency sake you want it to
deal with a promise exclusively.
So I think to maintain consistency
across an app that's being upgraded or
running in hybrid mode may make sense.
So there's always, you think,
why would anybody do this?
And somebody invariably comes
up with maybe a good reason.
But diving into observables,
they can be intimidating.
And we'll talk about this
actually in the next module, but
promises kind of do one thing,
observables do a ton of things.
And so, kind of making that switch,
it can be intimidating.
So What you can do is you can just turn
your observable into a promise using
toPromise and from there .then and .catch.
It works just like pretty
much how you would use in in
your JS.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
we're just doing a .get.
We're using .map so what we're doing is
we're converting the response to json.
And then we're just
converting that to a promise
in returning it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
http in angular versus AngularJS,
it's actually doing a little bit less.
So Angular as a whole, they say we're
going to focus on the things that matter.
And we're actually gonna pull back and
not get involved in some of the things
that maybe do not matter or
we wanna let developers have
the option to do it themselves.
So http is one of those things where under
the hood they, at least in this module,
they're going ahead and letting you
convert that to whatever you want.
So you could say I don't
want it to be json.
I want it to just be raw or
want to handle this on our end.
I want to.
In this case we're converting it to json.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so you can see here, we're calling it,
we're taking the response.
And then we are just converting it to
a promise.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now,
what's interesting is if
you've done AngularJS,
it's just then, just take the payload and
assign it to a local,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Property.
Now, that's enough about promises.
Let's talk about observables,
so simply Observable.subscribe.
So Observable.subscribe is kind of
the equivalent of promise.then.
In other words you finalize an observable
stream by calling .subscribe.
Now, within .subscribe you have
three methods that you can use.
So onNext, so
this is anytime a new value is available.
This gets called onError,
so if something goes wrong,
this is where you would capture it,
and onComplete.
So this is kind of like .next,
.error, .finally.
So this is kind of the equivalent or,
orThen, error, and
finally is next, error,
and aren't complete.
But these all get stacked together
within the subscribed block.
So it takes perimeters.
So it's next error and complete.
So in this case we're still dealing
with the observables, so it's .map.
And in the,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Consuming component,
let's say it's just .subscribe.
So .promise, or .then, .subscribe,
nothing changes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The difference is,
in this case,
I would say it's actually less work to
not have to convert it to a promise.
If all you're doing is pulling in some
data structure from a breast API,
.map here and
subscribe.
>> Speaker 2: So
what is the catch for that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So none in here,
I'll show it you in just a second.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But if you're going to
put it in, it would be,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is your first function,
it would be comma.
Or what you need to do is actually turn
this into brackets and it would be
comma and then the catch would go, and
actually it's not the catch it's the air.
So the air method would go as
the second parameter in that.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep, and so
we'll see that in just a moment.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we have a RequestOptions object and
this has a headers property.
So occasionally you need to adjust
the header of a request is
you're sending it to the server.
So one, a good example is
if you're handling JWT or
JWT web token authorization you
need to put that in the header.
So you can do it in
the request options object.
Another use case for this that I
ran into is setting content type.
So is some cases actually writing
back to the server you can say, hey,
this is what I'm giving you, so heads up.
It is something like application JSON's.
So being able to communicate
what's happening in the headers
is a pretty common thing
that you'll need to do.
I'm gonna show you two examples of this.
The first one is kind of easy mode.
And I'm just creating
this generic object over
here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
it's an object literal and
I'm just assigning a header as a property.
And then I'm just doing new headers and
I'm just putting in the object.
And then from there, when I call host I'm
just adding this in as a third parameter.
Pretty simple,
I could have actually done this in line.
I extracted it out so
it's available for additional calls.
You can take the fancy way and
you can create a new header object.
And then you can just pass it
in to the request options.
So you basically knew that as well.
I've that both ways.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Again,
I don't know if there's an advantage for
one or the other.
I probably would just go with these one.
I think even in the docks,
this is kind of what they have.
But if for some reason you maybe
needed some additional options for
the request you might
be able to do it there.
So outside of the headers, possibly.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
error handling.
So this is pretty interesting.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Unlike promises
when something went wrong it would
basically just call that error and
you would handle it in there.
In this case you need to catch
the error at the service level.
So within the stream you need to say
something went wrong, Observable.catch.
So you're saying if
something goes wrong .catch.
It will capture that and then from there
you can figure out what you wanna do.
If you want to surface that error,
then you call Observable.throw.
And then that will fire the error handler.
What this allows you to do is for
instance, using promises,
if you made a call to a server and
it failed and you wanted to retry,
how would you do that using promises?
You can't.
You just simply have to redo the call.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: With
observables it's easy.
So you can simply say hey,
this thing happened, let's go ahead and
just retry it three times or whatever.
And so
now you can say this error happened but
I wanna handle it within the stream.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: For
maybe a certain, there's some protocol.
Okay, let's try this five times.
Then if it fails on the fifth try then
we'll go ahead and let the user know.
So you may be dealing with
kind of a volatile connection that you
would actually like to try it a few times.
So from there you catch the error,
something went wrong.
You can handle it however you want, but
if you want to service it,
then you use Observable.throw.
And then then that will
show up in their handler.
So what this looks like
is we're making the call.
And there's an error.
Something goes wrong.
And so we're saying .catch.
So when I say Observable.catch,
catch is an operator.
And in this case we're saying immediately
when it happens let's just let's throw it.
So we're using Observable.throw.
And this over here is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Going
to vary depending on your server.
So, I mean it depends on what error
object you're getting from your server.
So if you're on Ruby or .net., so
you may get something that could vary.
So dial into taste.
Whatever you want to hear.
So in this case we're assuming that
you can convert the error to json and
that there is an error property on that.
If not then we're just
returning the server error.
So, I'm saying do this or return this.
I saw the hand.
>> Speaker 3: So the catch isn't,
I guess why are you having to say
Observable.throw?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Because you can
essentially keep that error in the string.
In other words,
you may choose to not surface it.
So for instance,
I could say catch the error and
instead I'm going to just
return like an empty object.
It gives you the ability to
say this has happened and
I'm not immediately going to surface it.
I'm going to perform some
unit of logic in here.
And so you just may say,
hey if this doesn't work go ahead and
just return this other thing in
the meantime or do something else.
And so for here, or
you may say go try and update this and
if it doesn't work just
return the cache version.
But in other cases you may say this
happened, we need to surface it.
And so this is what's happening here.
So we're catching it, having a mini of,
okay, what do we wanna do,
we just broke the lamp on the end table.
Do we try to fix it
before my mom finds it?
Or do we actually go tell her?
Which would be the equivalent
of Observable.throw.
That was actually a pretty good
analogy for off the top of my head.
I'm going to use that more.
I mean that's it.
What do we want to do here?
This thing happened.
Do we handle it here or try to fix it?
Or do we let somebody know?
Make sense?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so this is where
we have next and error.
So the first parameter, so
we're just doing this and
basically calling it back out.
We're saying when this
comes in go ahead and
call this next function as the first one.
So we're using bind because
of less little scope.
Don't worry about that,
just know that when next happens
It's calling the first function.
If there's an error,
then it calls the second function.
Does that make sense?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: How
do you feel about this?
>> Speaker 4: I think so,
I don't know.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There was like four,
you just had, [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A gamut of emotions on
your face.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: One more time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: One more time,
okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So catch, [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 4: Mm-hm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This happens basically
at the stream level.
So I'm using service here but
really what's happening in this stream
somethings went wrong, we wanna catch it.
So you can think of this
even as an assembly line.
You have your,
if something is not right, catch it.
From there we then determine
do we let somebody know.
That's what Observable.throw is.
>> Speaker 4: Right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Makes sense?
>> Speaker 4: Yes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, this is,
as far as I know,
not possible with observable or promises.
But the level of control that we can exert
on this and how we can handle this with
retrying these different things, it's
incredibly powerful to do it this way.
In fact, one of my favorite Frontend
Masters Course is by Jafar Hussein talking
about programming, and he is core
contributor to Your Reactive extensions.
And one of the things they've
tried to solve at Netflix is,
what do you do when you make a call
to the server and it doesn't work?
How do you retry?
With observables it's
really easy to do that.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's
why I love them.